The actual syntax for the transform property is quite simple, including the transform property followed by the value. The value specifies the transform type followed by a specific amount inside parentheses. It includes multiple vendor prefixes to gain the best support across all browsers.

Elements may be distorted, or transformed, on both a two-dimensional plane or a three-dimensional plane. Two-dimensional transforms work on the x and y axes, known as horizontal and vertical axes. Three-dimensional transforms work on both the x and y axes, as well as the z axis

The transform property accepts a handful of different values. The rotate value provides the ability to rotate an element from 0 to 360 degrees

Using the scale value within the transform property allows you to change the appeared size of an element.(It is possible to scale only the height or width of an element using the scaleX and scaleY values.) 

The translate value works a bit like that of relative positioning, pushing and pulling an element in different directions without interrupting the normal flow of the document.

The last transform value in the group, skew, is used to distort elements on the horizontal axis, vertical axis, or both.

It is common for multiple transforms to be used at once, rotating and scaling the size of an element at the same time for example.(Using multiple transform declarations will not work, as each declaration will overwrite the one above it.)

for a transition to take place, an element must have a change in state, and different styles must be identified for each state. The easiest way for determining styles for different states is by using the :hover, :focus, :active, and :target pseudo-classes.

The transition-property property determines exactly what properties will be altered in conjunction with the other transitional properties. By default, all of the properties within an element’s different states will be altered upon change.

It is important to note, not all properties may be transitioned, only properties that have an identifiable halfway point. Colors, font sizes, and the alike may be transitioned from one value to another as they have recognizable values in-between one another. The display property, for example, may not be transitioned as it does not have any midpoint.

The duration in which a transition takes place is set using the transition-duration property. The value of this property can be set using general timing values, including seconds (s) and milliseconds (ms). 

The transition-timing-function property is used to set the speed in which a transition will move. Knowing the duration from the transition-duration property a transition can have multiple speeds within a single duration. 

### 8 SIMPLE CSS3 TRANSITIONS THAT WILL WOW YOUR USERS

1. Fade in
2. Change color
3. Grow & Shrink
4. Rotate elements
5. Square to circle
6. 3D shadow
7. Swing
8. Inset border

