# controlling size of an image in css

You can control the size of an
image using the width and
height properties in CSS, just
like you can for any other box by controlling the image width and height

# aligning image using css

Rather than using the < img >
element's align attribute, web
page authors are increasingly
using the float property to align
images. There are two ways that
this is commonly achieved:

+ The float property is added
to the class that was created to
represent the size of the image

+ New classes are created with
names such as align-left or
align-right to align the images
to the left or right of the page.
These class names are used in
addition to classes that 

# centring image using css

There are two common ways in which you can horizontally center an image:

+ On the containing element,
you can use the text-align
property with a value of center

+ On the image itself, you can
use the use the margin property
and set the values of the left and
right margins to auto.

# BACKGROUND IMAGE

The background-image
property allows you to place
an image behind any HTML
element. This could be the entire
page or just part of the page. By
default, a background image will
repeat to fill the entire box.

## repeating images

+ repeat:

The background image is
repeated both horizontally and
vertically

+ repeat-x:

The image is repeated
horizontally only

+ repeat-y:

The image is repeated vertically
only.

+ no-repeat:

The image is only shown once.

**The background-attachment property specifies whether a background image should stay in one position or move as the user scrolls up and down the page. It can have one of two values:**

+ fixed

The background image stays in
the same position on the page.

+ scroll

The background image moves
up and down as the user scrolls
up and down the page.

## Background Position

+ left top
+ left center
+ left bottom
+ center top
+ center center
+ center bottom
+ right top
+ right center
+ right bottom

# Summary

+ You can specify the dimensions of images using CSS.
This is very helpful when you use the same sized
images on several pages of your site.

+ Images can be aligned both horizontally and vertically
using CSS.

+ You can use a background image behind the box
created by any element on a page.

+ Background images can appear just once or be
repeated across the background of the box.

+ You can create image rollover effects by moving the
background position of an image.

+ To reduce the number of images your browser has to
load, you can create image sprites.

