**There are lots of occasions when we need to use lists. HTML provides us with three different types:**

- Ordered lists 

lists where each item in the list is numbered. For example, the list might be a set of steps for a recipe that must be performed in order, or a legal contract where each point needs to be identified by a section number.

- Unordered lists

lists that begin with a bullet point (rather than characters that indicate order).

- Definition lists

made up of a set of terms along with the definitions for each of those terms.

# Ordered Lists

The ordered list is created with the <  ol > element.

Each item in the list is placed between an opening <  li > tag and a closing     < /li  > tag. (The listands for list item.)

# Unordered Lists

The unordered list is created with the <  ul > element.

Each item in the list is placed between an opening <  li > tag .

# Definition Lists

The definition list is created with the <  dl > element and usually consists of a series of terms and their definitions. Inside the <  dl > element you will usually see pairs of <  dt > and <  dd > elements.

<  dt > This is used to contain the term being defined (the definition term).

<  dd > This is used to contain the definition.

# Nested Lists

You can put a second list inside an <  li > element to create a sublist or nested list.

# summary:

+ There are three types of HTML lists: ordered, unordered, and definition.

+ Ordered lists use numbers.

+ Unordered lists use bullets.

+ Definition lists are used to define terminology.

+ Lists can be nested inside one another.


**CSS treats each HTML element as if it lives in its own box. You can set several properties that affect the appearance of these boxes.**

# Box Dimention
## width, height

By default a box is sized just big
enough to hold its contents. To
set your own dimensions for a
box you can use the height and
width properties.

# Limiting Width

## min-width, max-width

Some page designs expand and
shrink to fit the size of the user's
screen. In such designs, the
min-width property specifies
the smallest size a box can be
displayed at when the browser
window is narrow, and the
max-width property indicates
the maximum width a box can
stretch to when the browser
window is wide.

# Limiting Height

## min-height, max-height

In the same way that you might
want to limit the width of a box
on a page, you may also want
to limit the height of it. This is
achieved using the min-height
and max-height properties.

# OverflowingContent

## overflow

The overflow property tells the
browser what to do if the content
contained within a box is larger
than the box itself. It can have
one of two values:

+ hidden

This property simply hides any
extra content that does not fit in
the box.

+ scroll

This property adds a scrollbar to
the box so that users can scroll
to see the missing content.

# Border, Margin & Padding

+ Border

Every box has a border (even if
it is not visible or is specified to
be 0 pixels wide). The border
separates the edge of one box
from another.

+ Margin

Margins sit outside the edge
of the border. You can set the
width of a margin to create a
gap between the borders of two
adjacent boxes.

+ Padding

Padding is the space between
the border of a box and any
content contained within it.
Adding padding can increase the
readability of its contents.

# White space & Vertical Margin

The padding and
margin properties
are very helpful
in adding space
between various
items on the page.

# Border Width

The border-width property
is used to control the width
of a border. The value of this
property can either be given
in pixels or using one of the
following values:

+ thin
+ medium
+ thick

# Border Style

You can control the style of a
border using the border-style
property. This property can take
the following values:

+ solid : a single solid line

+ dotted : a series of square dots

+ dashed : a series of short lines

+ double : two solid lines

+ groove appears to be carved
into the page

+ ridge appears to stick out from
the page

+ inset appears embedded into
the page

+ outset looks like it is coming
out of the screen

+ hidden / none no border is
shown

# Border Color

You can specify the color of a
border using either RGB values,
hex codes or CSS color names.

# Shorthand Border

The border property allows you
to specify the width, style and
color of a border in one property
(and the values should be coded
in that specific order).

# Padding

The padding property allows
you to specify how much space
should appear between the
content of an element and its
border. 

# Margin

The margin property controls
the gap between boxes. Its value
is commonly given in pixels,
although you may also use
percentages or ems.

# Centring Content

If you want to center a box on
the page (or center it inside
the element that it sits in), you
can set the left-margin and
right-margin to auto.

# IE6 Box Model

When you specify the width of
a box, any padding or margin
should be added to the width of
it. Internet Explorer 6, however,
has a quirk whereby it includes
the padding and margins in the
width of the box.

# Change Inline/Block

The display property allows
you to turn an inline element
into a block-level element or vice
versa, and can also be used to
hide an element from the page.

# Hiding Boxes

## visibility

The visibility property allows
you to hide boxes from users
but It leaves a space where the
element would have been.

# CSS3: Border Images

## border-image

The border-image property
applies an image to the border of
any box. It takes a background
image and slices it into nine
pieces. 


# CSS3: Box Shadows

## box-shadow

The box-shadow property
allows you to add a drop shadow
around a box. 

# CSS3 : Rounded Corners

## border-radius

CSS3 introduces the ability to
create rounded corners on any
box, using a property called
border-radius. The value
indicates the size of the radius
in pixels.

# CSS3: Elliptical Shapes

## border-radius

To create more complex shapes,
you can specify different
distances for the horizontal and
the vertical parts of the rounded
corners.

